So the state of the project
now is 08-react-router.
If you need to catch up or
want to see where we're at.
We're kind of closing on react router for
the moment.
We'll do some other things with it, but
that's as much as I'm gonna
get into the depth on it.
There are alternatives for the record
have more minimalistic routers out there,
the names are escaping me but
there are others just search for
like react router alternatives
I'm sure you'll find a few.
At Netflix we ended up writing our
own I should say the web core team I
didn't help you probably talked to
the president about it I think he was on
that team when I was there just
something more minimalistic, right?
We didn't want all the bells and
whistles we just wanted it to
literally navigate from page to page.
And so if that's what you're looking for
there are more minimalistic
ones out there.
Okay, we are gonna talk
about class components now.
Everything that you and I've been doing
up to this point have been function
components which are kind of like
the direction in the future of react, and
hooks and things like that, react was for
the longest time not written like that.
I remember when function components first
came out, and it was like a revelation as
like, my gosh, I just read
a render function and I'm done.
I was almost offended at
the simplicity of it all.
When I first start out there was a,
so there we showed you react,
create element there used to be a react
create class and that's how we did it.
And actually, I still wax nostalgic
about the create class days because I,
under the surface kinda pinning
things together that was really nice
that React doesn't do for you anymore.
But partway through react switch to
ES6 classes like ES 2015 classes,
which are nice because it's kinda leaning
into the platform and using the constructs
of JavaScript, but it stopped doing
a lot of very nice things for you.
Anyway, we're going to show
you how to do that [LAUGH].
So I'm going to say that there's this API
that I'm about to show is not deprecated.
It's not going anywhere.
These will always be available, but
you're probably going to write these
way less now than you ever did before.
But you need to know them because
there's still lots of them out there and
sometimes you have to read them this way.
And sometimes you'll want
to write them this way
we'll kind of go over
that as we're doing it.
So I want you to go in here to details and
we're going to make details instead
of this being a function component.
We're going to make it a class component
so we're going to import component.
Component from react.
You just delete this and we're gonna say,
class, details this extends component.
Okay?
We'll use params here in just a second so
you can leave that import.
So this is not a function
anymore this is a class right?
This is something that's
built into JavaScript.
If you've never seen them
before it's totally fine.
You don't typically use
them on the day to day,
most people don't write JavaScript in
a object oriented kinda way please don't.
Don't start I implore you as your future
coworker to not start writing JavaScript
in an object oriented way go write Java or
something I don't know anyway so
the first thing is I want to
create some state on this, right?
So typically I would have done
use state with hooks, right?
But you can't use hooks
with class components.
So you stay use a factor,
use params or anything that uses use,
you cannot use with a class component.
Totally different way of
writing code here now.
So the first thing we're going to do
is we're going to write a constructor.
The constructor takes in props.
And then the first thing that
you're gonna call is superprops.
Get very used to writing this.
Anytime that you have a constructor, and
a constructor is basically like run this
function as soon as this
class gets created.
So as soon as someone creates an instance,
have details run the constructor.
This is like a reserved JavaScript word.
It's not that React is doing this.
It's that JavaScript in general does that.
So the props is taking in the props of
whatever the parent component is passing
down to the child's component, right?
So this is gonna be whatever the route is.
Being passed from app, right?
Super props means give this to my parent
component so not parent component but
parent class the parent class of details
is component which is a React component,
right?
Basically what you're saying is you
have to give the props to React or
React doesn't know that you got the props
which just messes with a bunch of stuff.
If you have no props it
doesn't really matter.
But I just want you to get in the habit
of anytime that you add a constructor and
react to the first thing
that you call a super props.
Just like diagrammatically, just do it,
you'll save yourself a bunch of time and
pain later.
Okay, then I wanna
create my initial state.
So this dot state equals loading true.
So what's nice about
function components and
like cook based components is you
never have to worry about this.
And if, if anyone's ever taken
a JavaScript interview before here,
we love to ask what is this?
Right, and it's annoying as hell and
that's the way it is but in react.
So, with class components, this becomes
very component important because it's
contextually how you manage the state and
manage the props.
So in this case,
will be the instance of detail.
Okay, So
let's write the render function next.
So I don't know why I'm putting
spaces there, that's kind of weird.
Function components have like their
function body is the render function right
with class components.
The only rule of a class component is it
must have a render function and the render
function works just like the function
component bodies that it's gonna get run.
And it's going to return some markup.
So here we're just going to say
if this dot state dot loading,
then return h2 loading
Typically you'd put something
like a spinner here or something like
that, but nobody got time for that h2.
Okay and then I'm just going
to show you the way that
I would do this which is I
would destructure here and
say const, animal breed,
city state description,
name equals this start state
thing here and no, that's fine.
Yeah, that's fine, okay.
But you could totally go around and
say this dot state dot animal,
this dot state dot breed this dot state
dot city that just gets old, right?
So it's nice to do structure and then it
makes the render code look kind of nice.
And then here you're just
going to return your markup.
Details and then nothing here
should seem too surprising to you.
Another div,
each one will put the name here.
So like I was saying before, instead of
saying this, you could have said this,
dot state dot name here, like this.
Whatever you find more appealing go for
it I just like making this
little as the least dense as
possible it can be then h2 here and
we're just going to do
Animal and then I'll put an M dash again
or minus or whatever you want breed.
City, comma, state like is that.
>> Is the best practice to only
deconstruct the elements you're gonna use?
>> Yeah well, and as you can see here,
yes, Linda's yelling at us right now,
yeah, in general, you just want to be
concerned with what you're concerned
about and ignore everything else.
It's life advice too.
[LAUGH] Okay,
button here and
we're gonna say adopt name.
And then Here we're gonna put
the description of the animal.
Okay, so that's a render function.
You can see this looks really similar
to what you just put in a function
component, right?
That's intentional,
I'm gonna just reiterate again right now,
you cannot use hooks here.
So if I try to do use params here,
it'd be like, yeah, no, you can't do,
I think even, Yeah, use params cannot be
called in the class component, right?
So it's even smart enough to
tell you that you can't do that.
I'll show you in a second how you can.
And it's Pretty obvious
if you think about it.